JSONAccess
==========

Provides simple JSON access to Bolt's internal data structures.

What it does
------------

Enabling this extension adds routes to the application that serves content as
JSON rather than HTML. This route defaults to `/json`, so if, for example, you
have a content type named 'entries', then the entry with ID 1 is available
under `/json/entries/1`.

Configuration
-------------

In order to enable JSON serving for any content type, it has to be added to the
extension's configuration file, located at `app/config/extensions/jsonaccess.bolt.yml`.

See the provided `config.yml.dist` for an example configuration with a brief
explanation.

Note in particular that content types that you don't mention in the
configuration file won't be served by the JSONAccess extension.

Calls
-----

JSONAccess implements RESTful semantics for all calls, mapping resources as
follows:

- `/json/{contenttype}` returns a list of records of the specified contenttype.
  The default is to return all items in the same order that the front-end uses.
  The listing contains the 'id' of every record, as well as a configurable
  selection of fields (defaulting to all configurable fields, but none of the
  'meta' fields Bolt introduces itself). The list of fields can be overridden in
  the JSONAccess extension's `config.yml` file.
- `/json/{contenttype}/{id}` returns one record of the specified contenttype,
  including *all* fields.
- `/json/{contenttype}/{id}/{relatedContenttype}` returns a list of records of
  the specified related contenttype. The data format is the same as in
  `/json/{contenttype}/`

Advanced listing
----------------

The list call accepts some extra parameters (in the form of query string
parameters appended to the URL):

- `?order={fieldname}` and `?order={fieldname} {ordering}` - Order the list by
  the specified field. Only one field is currently supported. The `ordering`
  must be one of `ASC` or `DESC`.
- `?limit={limit}` - specify the number of items to return.
- `?page={page}` - to be combined with `limit`: get the n-th page. This is
  1-based, so `1` designates the first page.

So for example `/json/pages?order=title&limit=10&page=2` sorts all Pages by
title and returns entries 11 through 20 (inclusive).

Sending headers
---------------

To work correctly with other tools that _read_ the JSON generated by Bolt and
this extension, it might be necessary to set the correct headers with the
response. By default, this extension sets the following:

```YML
headers:
    'Access-Control-Allow-Origin': '*'
    'Content-Type': 'application/json'
```

You can define additional headers as required, or tweak the existing ones.
